all right we have a live stream and Alan
was making jazz hands good times all
right for sure you want to take it away
you're muted at the moment Portia oh
sure am I going first just in terms of
driving moderating the conversation okay
um awesome so the topics we're going to
go over today would be the go ipfs David
well a chance to give us a rundown what
happened last week Allen will introduce
his amazing web UI which he released
Friday night that was pretty exciting
I'm just gonna have us conversation it's
not gonna be too long about maybe using
daps
as opposed to Google Drive and Steve is
going to talk about road maps and annual
akr s so um David can you take an away
please absolutely thank you wondering
could be they don't think here okay so
I'll just very quickly tie my screen so
that like you all see what I see by the
way how is my connection is it good like
zoom I've been giving trouble for me
today if you can dump like Freddie your
audio is pretty country okay so what are
these I guess what up goes first
and I'll try to fix this Alan do you
think you can hop in and talk about your
stuff yeah sure thing okay if that's
okay first is not my web UI I did this I
did do work on it but it is the good
work of all II lied I lied all Diego
Henrique and Agatha and it is super rad
I did the minimal amount of effort by
putting it in a sigh PFS and releasing
it as soon as possible cuz it's so good
so let me just quickly share my screen
Anna
you can you will see things yes yes red
so there is a new release of Jace ipfs a
release candidate so it's almost shipped
but you can download it now you can npm
install Jace IVFs at like this emi b FS
at 0.33 e e:0
- RC dot one and you should probably do
that clearly if you're gonna do this but
that will install you the brand new IVFs
that will be coming out hopefully this
week and in that next release it has the
new the brand new web web UI and you
should just be able to start up your
Jace IVFs demon like this and in that we
have a new a new line which tells you
where the web UI is so just to prove to
you that we're running this for this new
version we can print out the version
cool and then we should just be able to
fire up oh let me copy that like that
that URL and then if I fire up Chrome or
something I should just be able to start
up the web UI oh cool okay so this is
interesting we got to fix this bit but
because the GS ipfs web UI runs on fire
so the API runs on 5002 but essentially
you should just get you go work your web
UI straight away cool here it is the
Status page I Ollie has demoed this many
times before and he would probably be
better to take you through this but
there's status those files you can look
at gifts and things you can explore the
merkel forest you can look at
protobufs your regular kind of UNIX FS
files you can look at all sort of sort
of get things you can look at the peers
that you are currently connected to and
they're shown on a map which is cool
they kind of pop up and and you can also
edit the settings for your node and it's
all there and it's all ready for you to
look at if you'd like to so if we click
through to here yes okay is it web UI
here here we go so I guess if there are
any if you spot any problems of it then
check take a look at the the issues list
for the web UI see if they're already
there and if it's not then please open
an issue but basically it would be cool
to get everyone trying it out and
testing out the new release checking the
web UI is working because then when we
do come to probably probably release it
in a few days time we can maybe get some
fixes in before before that happens so
that's cool I think that's just about
all I've got to say would anyone like to
ask me questions hello Holly I not a
question so much as an addendum I would
like to run some usability tests on the
new web UI so that we have some
structured feedback for the next round
of improvements and I'm looking for
volunteers you don't all have to shower
now but I see Molly has her hand up
which I assume is volunteering thank you
very much and for sure and Eric and
anyone else I can't see all the faces in
Ian it would be much easier if you would
commit to that on a github issue that I
will drop in the chat thank you so
there's a question in the chat about the
web UI being dependent on the latest
chairside EFS and I think the answer is
no it's not you can just go to the hash
and of that URL on the Gateway or web UI
PFS ty
and you can point it at your go ipfs
node and and it will just work so yeah
any of questions cool
it is awesome right did Rick all right
cool okay that's all I have to say thank
you for shear muted again strictly I
hope I hope this is not gonna be an
ongoing for me um so thank you very much
Alan uh Davey are you ready to is your
sound in order or shall we continue I
don't I don't see it to be a busy
seventh yeah I don't see him um so I
will my what I'm presenting is gonna be
probably two minutes it's just more of
an opening of a conversation and so last
month I was part of eath Berlin and one
of the goals of a Berlin was to dog
foods some of the products that they
were creating or using in other words
using more adapts like using as opposed
to using something like a Google Drive
or something like a slack like being
able to incorporate apps more into their
workflow and I just wanted to start a
conversation is that something that we
think that we can start doing now um
what I mean now I mean using
applications such as status using
applications such as graphite I believe
and yeah
I think um something that might be
useful or yes I'm raising a hand
Perry was also raising a hand Terry on
the course today now okay
Alan's also raising your hand so what I
think my I feed big on this would be
that sounds cool and sounds
and Molly is gone hello
I think we did possibly lose Molly but I
think I seem to be uh can I can I ask a
question if we're gonna stay on this
agenda item well I don't know I missed I
wasn't sure if we were given the debate
is now that maybe I don't know I think
we should continue discussing this item
as we're currently doing that yes what
what is can we get a little more context
I don't actually know any of the apps
that are being referenced oh when you
say doc suit any much distributed UPS
I'm sorry okay now it's not clear to me
apologies ignore
do you want to do a Terry and then Alan
Kerry did you already go sorry I fell
off
Kerry go ahead and then Alan sure so I
have I don't know who is just speaking
but I have the same question like the
specific apps that Porsche just
mentioned are ones that I'm not familiar
with if we're talking about using
decentralized apps in general instead of
tools that the broader world are
familiar with I'd want to understand
more about who is using those tools
right now a lot of decentralized stuff
this is me I was hired to be the voice
of the beginner a lot of the
decentralized stuff comes across as
super intimidating it's people who
aren't already on it so depending what
the audience is the people who need to
use this tool have the skills they need
to use it or can we make it really easy
to onboard and are we losing benefits in
terms of working with existing systems
working with systems that exist so I
don't know for example whether we're
talking about tools that would be used
for just protocol employees or what the
closest equivalent to the word employees
as it applies to protocol or for the
broader community something like a
Google Drive that people are very
familiar with it has a lot of adoption I
would hesitate more to replace with
something then I would something that's
more obscure just for the people who are
developing on this system or whatever
but I don't have enough background to
say more than that Alan yeah in general
I I'm super-proud dogfooding everything
we can
if so we we did once try to use peer pad
for the hack pad for the I guess core
dev meetups and it wasn't quite ready
yet so what I'd say is if we do do this
then there needs to be an offline test
before we get 25 people on a call and it
crashes but yet using using distributed
apps using apps that are built on top of
IP FS as well and I'd be super Pro doing
all of that
so yeah in general cool I missed a lot
of that conversation but I think that
would be even a good motivation just
reiterating what Alan said just trying
to build apps on top of IP FS that we
can actually use or we can just like
demo and a smaller scale
it doesn't have to be something that we
change overnight like the next week
there'll be no more zoo but it'll be
something where we can get people to we
can even have like hackathons to build
stuff like um replacements of Google
Drive and such just have a small sector
of people test it out and just like keep
that conversation going and keep people
creating stuff that will in the near
future replace some of the decentralized
apps that we're using now myself been a
Dean then Matt I I think we're sorry for
falling off is that gonna go I think
we're all excited about the idea of
using decentralized apps
I think we've you know your pad is
literally being built on top of some of
the the technology and I confess that
we're super excited about but we also we
want to understand what the benefits
would be for actually being able to work
together as a community and effectively
you know host this group of people
openly so maybe let's take more of this
conversation offline into a github issue
or something that's more of a
fleshed-out proposal I want to point to
Matt's example of thinking you have an
amazing example up I believe it's it's
either on ipfs slash I'd be nicer I'd be
less slash community which documents are
our thought around using discuss if I
it's like here is the problem here all
but the constraints the things you have
to think about here are the various
solutions we're looking into it is like
picture perfect let's use that as a
model for the way that we communicate
what other tools we might want to adopt
and and explain it in terms of cost
benefits I don't know if if like
discussing it openly without being able
to understand and reference that is is
the most effective way to to push
forward on that conversation so let's
use that as a model that's my proposal
being your next then Matt then divvied
so basic +1 to only said but also I
think it'd be really helpful to be able
to sort of dog food and utilize like one
or two things built on ipfs so we can
sort of see how it's see how it's
progressing and monitor it
more I guess intimately but deciding
exactly which things we feel the most
need for or which kinds of applications
will help us out the most is something
we can start putting together like a
initial know just echoing what people
have already said
you
I better don't know okay I have a screen
channel like the speed of my Wi-Fi it
seems that my five-year laptop my
five-year four core 16 gig of ram laptop
is not good enough for zoom sorry about
it
okay my normal laptop broke and it's
repairing well let me know if like my
video or I can try to keep my video it's
unbearable take what you can take on the
but doing the quick recap for me is that
is behind Mary Eric could take on I
don't know if you as a sense check my
summary
you got a post of this morning European
morning I haven't seen it yet I mean I
saw the email but I can check it right
now I can okay screen share there we go
we can do it can be a team effort
okay okay can you guys see my screen
yes it's really big right now I don't
know how to make it smaller you didn't
figure out how to do that come on don't
mind I figured it out well can people
still see that yeah
well Eric you want to talk over this
yeah sure
uh let me see if I can if I can
summarize if we we had a week in London
the entire go IP FSI PLD and the p2p
teams I say entire but actually some
people couldn't take it it was really
fruitful and I think from the beginning
on Monday Molly and Abid presented what
were their sort of best the best
understanding we currently have appeals
goals for ipfs in general and that
formed the basis of a fantastic
discussion that continued throughout the
week actually of refining ok ours well
first of bucketing sets of features that
were appropriate for those overall goals
for those known goals and then refining
our ok ours and breaking into teams to
address those ok ours so in kind of to
summarize we left the week with a much
better focus on actually the the sort of
short and medium-term goals for ipfs
that coincide with with broader PL goals
not just for ipfs but for everything
that the Ale is doing and we have much
better clarity as a team what each of us
individually is going to be working on
and we broke into sub teams so that we
can address priorities as a as a smaller
group instead of trying to organize
across the entire all the teams this was
especially acute I think on the go ipfs
side are especially important on the go
ipfs side IPL d Inlet p2p because they
were smaller teams are I think already
had some better understanding of their
priorities and how they were gonna work
to achieve and then there was just I
thought an extraordinary amount of
knowledge transfer and I know that being
relatively new to the project I learned
a lot and felt much more caught up at
the end of the week and I had started
and then show me what you got was a big
theme on Thursday where people demoed
and discussed basically the outcomes of
conversations or work that they had done
during the week that was actually
so I don't know if there's more to say
Molly and Abid if you guys have leather
stuff there's this there was a ipfs meet
up at cloud player which was actually
super fun and neat CloudFlare is one of
you know sort of a willing to host the
Meetup and of course also willing to
host ipfs on their network a big
supporter of ipfs and i was really
interesting and a lot of people gave
some great talks all Ian Allen Steven
did a good extemporaneous talk on IPL B
when his presentation went awry and I
actually thought he pulled it off
Wan demoed chess a D app chess game that
he had developed using the JavaScript
libraries for ipfs that was awesome
considering that he had started it at
the beginning sort of just sitting there
in a chair at the beginning of the
meetup are not even at the beginning of
the meetup at the beginning of the
presentations and at the end of them he
was ready to show it and it actually
worked I thought that was awesome and to
be kind of jumped in and tried to ruin
his presentation by playing chess
against oh by the way I switched to my
iPad I hope like this works better it is
like I do here you better
so in fact we have diagnose that like a
four five year laptop with four cores
and things you know 16 gigs around is
not enough to run zone so say yeah thank
you for the summary I think you pretty
much I went through all of the things I
didn't try to run ruin one presentation
I was augmenting it by saying it also
works on mobile - I was actually very
impressed that you were able to jump in
I thought it was awesome yeah so like
don't do it don't do it and the deed was
you can do so exactly
until yeah like you can see links to the
videos on the dock we like right now
those are the raw video so they haven't
be creamed they have until polished the
sound hasn't been like reviewed so like
yeah
touchable like I have watched them but
like we expect to have seen a version
and will publish to YouTube that then
will create a playlist that everyone can
like reference to everyone else so that
they can watch um attending for the
videos wanted me that those we don't
have access to the raw versions right
now once they are ready we'll publish
them as well through the regular channel
so like just put it on YouTube perhaps
and I'll complete their announce on IRC
but but yeah like it is like go through
the the recap like if you have questions
or I could questions outlook with that
more than happy to answer I would say
just maybe one other thing is I think we
had on Friday we had a really
interesting I thought it was interesting
it was a retrospective where people had
sort of I mean it was obvious that we
would do it but actually interesting
things came out of what people got out
of the week not just exactly what I got
but some other things too and also some
conclusions about the the value of it
and when we might want to do it again
and sort of the time scales at which it
becomes important to sort of rethink and
be able to talk to each other
synchronously for a good bit of time I
thought were interesting outcomes of
yeah Kyle Allen recommends winters talk
definitely
these are was another person hadn't
pulled an amazing feat of accepting to
give a talk on gossip sub Sunday and
then decided that he was going to use
his own language that he created to
create a simulation that he was going to
run to then create a visualization that
he had to create a library to bind to
some water graphics library to his own
language so that it could I create a
visualization and he managed to do that
from Sunday to Monday there's like
polish I think no worries um I said just
wondering cuz I wasn't with you guys
over there
um how those of us that are working on
things that are not explicitly touching
me okay ours I should you know work with
the rest of the team so that we're not
you know sort of distracting from sort
of the main thrust of development but
still getting done what we need to get
done right whether it's the stuff that
whether it's things like you know making
gossip stuff better sub better or you
know other ways of like the stuff I've
been working on in terms of you know
group based naming systems and that sort
of thing I think yeah I think I clear
your question as a lot more context
there like some people here - and I if I
understand your question correctly is
given that like their chairs were set by
they don't makes quarter by the end of
the last quarter or that they were kind
of like oh go ipfs specifically aisles
were kind of like reiterated right now
because we had this opportunity to get
that bound together others like
different working groups communicate the
needs that they have to other teams and
the answer to that is
there isn't not a good enough channel
and perhaps we might not want to have to
alter their cares while they the quarter
is already happening if there is a need
from a working group and their debts
need was not captured or not received by
the other working group in time then it
means like that that need might just
have to be like a responsibility of the
the working group that sorry I'm using
the word needs too many times but I'm
saying like specifically that enemy
didn't capabilities repeat they need
something from going too fast they might
have a key result or an objective that
requires something from the go a purpose
implementation but they should be the
ones owning it and making sure that the
team cannot support and help drive it
true one of the things I think it's
important to I lied and it's one of the
denotes that got recorded on to show me
what you got session from the hack week
is that it is important to understand
that like the OPR only account for 60%
of the work that we plan for the quarter
we always like reserved like a bucket of
40% time and and of course like this
6040 numbers like really it's a little
bit of arbitrary at the same time it's
really hard to say oh if we just
hopefully six different time or every
education time which we believe we're
going to get done in 60 but but the idea
is there is like two ways to track work
to track progress
one is through OPRS which is the thing
that you communicate to the whole work
to the thing that like people can use to
rely on to check in progress at the
middle of the quarter etc and then there
is the retrospective at the end of the
quarter where people get a chance to
describe like tell others how they spend
their 40 percent time either by putting
fires out or by hacking or something
News sparking a new project etc and so
on the retrospective is where everyone
gets a chance for the humble breaks
right like oh I spend a little bit of
time on this and now this is possible or
or I work with a dynamic data working
group
and I had a bit extra feature that
wasn't planned at all for my PFS and so
use that to your own benefit and I kind
of I try to see people are available or
not like it might happen that the things
that are on the cars are so much more
important and they have so much more
work there that like it was not like it
was an unknown in the beginning of the
quarter but it might happen like you
actually find some of your ability or
some way to align both what we needs and
what the team is working on already and
yield the result that you need to do
like progress for New York but but
ideally for next quarter and it is good
to have all of this discussion and one
of the things that the persevering group
wants to create for this quarter it's
really this channel between working
groups to make it more obvious to make
sure that like the working groups can
communicate to each other like what they
are looking for next quarter what they
need vertook succeed etc so we're
running we're out of time we're over
time by two minutes Eric did you have
something that was related to this I can
just say quickly if you have questions
about priorities for the Go ipfs group
definitely get in contact with me or you
can jump into our weekly which is coming
up here in 30 minutes and the same thing
I would say for the p2p you can contact
Mike and ask him what's going on there
so if you want a sort of review or you
have stuff that's that you feel like oh
it's important for me to coordinate with
those groups definitely absolutely feel
free to contact me because for anyone
that's it I know that Steve also had an
agenda item for for today Steve can we
move that to next week since we're
running over time or do you have some
short version we can absolutely and
actually maybe Molly if you have five
minutes at this table to just connect on
something really quick but yeah perfect
yeah let's sync up and there were two
announcements in the notes that were
both great from Hector we have a pin bot
upgrade on Twitter and from Lydell brave
announced its first release in the
chromium based version and companion
works perfectly that's both awesome
great work everyone any final things
before we sign off I'm seeing lots of
thumbs up
good work y'all are great hey Alan did
you have it no you're good you're just
making pieces awesome happy Monday
happy Monday see you all another meeting